feat: add olares cli content (#75)
beclab/docs: docs/developer/develop/advanced/cli/olares-cli.md

---
outline: [2, 3]
---
# Olares CLI

> Olares provides a command line tool called Olares CLI. It is designed for developers or system administrators to customize or troubleshoot the installation process of Olares.
> 
> The one-liner command used to download Olares fetches a shell script from https://olares.sh. This script automatically downloads and installs Olares CLI, which is then used to manage the rest of the installation process.
> 
> While the initial script handles downloading `olares-cli`, the tool itself is responsible for the actual installation and configuration of Olares. The process typically involves the following phases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Olares provides Olares CLI, a command-line tool for developers and system administrators to customize or troubleshoot the Olares installation process.

The recommended [one-liner installation command](https://docs.olares.xyz/manual/get-started/install-olares.html#install-olares) retrieves a shell script from https://olares.sh/ that downloads and installs Olares CLI. Once installed, the CLI orchestrates the remainder of the setup.

In general, Olares CLI manages installation through three main phases:
```

1. **Download**: Olares CLI fetches the necessary components.
2. **Prepare**: Olares CLI prepares the environment for installation.
3. **Install**: Olares CLI installs the core services of Olares.

This page explains the Olares CLI syntax and describes the command operations.

:::info Root privileges required
Most olares-cli commands require root privileges. Use the root user or prepend commands with `sudo`.
:::

## Syntax
The Olares CLI uses the following syntax:

> `olares-cli command [subcommand] [option]`

where
- `command`: Specifies the main operation you want to perform. For example, `olares download`.
- `subcommand`: Further specifies the task of `command`. For example, `wizard` or `component`.
- `option`: Optional arguments that modify the behavior of the `command`. Options include flags and options with arguments.

Olares CLI allows you to temporarily override certain Olares default settings. Each option applies only to the command in which it is used.

> For example, if you use the `--base-dir` option with `olares-cli olares download`, it will only affect the download process and will not change the base directory for other commands, such as during the "install" phase.

Author: Indeed. But explicitly stating it can help avoid confusion and ensure that users understand the behavior clearly.
